READ THIS!  (If you want help.)

This is an automated response to an email message you sent to the 
spambayes@python.org mailing list.  Please read this message carefully to 
see if it answers your question(s).


Before you do anything else:
----------------------------

Before asking a question on the list, please take a moment and check the
frequently asked questions page:

    http://spambayes.sourceforge.net/faq.html


What is Spambayes?
------------------

The Spambayes project was formed to develop a Bayesian anti-spam filter, 
initially based on the work of Paul Graham.  The major difference between 
this and other, similar, projects is the emphasis on testing newer 
approaches to scoring messages.  You can read all about Spambayes on the 
project's website:

    http://spambayes.org/


Will Spambayes run on my system/in my environment?
--------------------------------------------------

Yes, though which tools you use and the amount of work necessary to get 
started will vary depending on your computing platform, email client and 
how you get mail from a mail server.


I'm having trouble installing Spambayes.  Help!
-----------------------------------------------

Please ensure that you have the latest version.  As of 2004-02-09, this is
1.0a9 for the source, and 0.9 for the binary installer for the Outlook
plug-in and sb_server. If you are still having trouble, try looking at the
bug reports that are currently open:

    http://sf.net/tracker/?group_id=61702&atid=498103

If you can't find anything, then else submit a bug (see below), or if you
think it's just something you're doing wrong, ask the list.


I found a bug.
--------------

Please file a bug report:

    http://sf.net/tracker/?group_id=61702&atid=498103

If you post your bug report to the mailing list, there's always the chance
it will get missed.  Filing a bug report also provides a single place to 
collect all the data related to the bug, making it easier to put all the 
pieces together which are necessary to fix the underlying problem.


Subscribing to the Spambayes mailing list.
------------------------------------------

The spambayes@python.org mailing list formed in September 2002 to support 
development of the Spambayes spam filtering system as an outgrowth of 
earlier threads on the Python developers' mailing list.  You can subscribe
to the Spambayes mailing list using the form at

    http://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/spambayes
